This project seeks to collect and form a repository of gendered words in "An Historical Account of the Black Empire of Hayti" by Marcus Rainsford, "The History, Civil and Commercial, of the British colonies in the West Indies" by Bryan Edward, and "History of the island of St. Domingo, from its first discovery by Columbus to the present period" by Sir James Baske. This will be done in order to gain a deeper understanding gendered language during the Haitian Revolution of 1791-1804. In addition, it may reveal larger colonial narratives about gender roles. I hypothesized this to reveal that women will be more likely mentioned in virtue of their relationship to men. In other words, women will be most commonly be mentioned in the text as a title of "wife", "mother", or "daughter". In contrast, I expect that men will not be mentioned as often in relation to their status as a "husband', "father", or "son" but more commonly as simply "men".

The methodology I followed was quite simple. I loaded each text using a text file I extracted myself. Then, I tokenized each of the 3 files using SpaCy. After, I defined a list of female and male related terms. I ensured that this list would stay consistant within my research, as to avoid any errors and continuity issues. After, I used pandas to count the sums of female and male related terms and represented these counts visually using a series. After creating a repository of gendered-words in the text I was working with, I would then move to exact relational terms (mother, wife, daughter, sister; father, husband, son, brother) from nonrelational gendered terms. After, I calculated the relative frequencies of gendered terms within the entirety of the text. Then, I calcualted the internal relational-term ratios for each gender. Lastly, after collecting these numbers, I used the chi-square contingency tests to evaluate whether gender and relational-term usage was independnt or dependant.

The key findings aligned with my intial hypothesis. I found that female-related terms appeared less often overall than male-related terms. In addition, a larger share of female terms were relational comapred to male terms in each text. The chi-squared tests all produced p-values below 0.05 for each of the 3 works. This indictated a statistically significant association between gender and relational term usage. In other words, it shows that gender and relational term usage are extreamly unlikely to be independant in regards to these colonial Caribbean texts. Overall, the results provide strong evidence which supports the conclusion that these colonial texts portray women in relation to othersm while men are less often portrayed using relational terms. This corroborated my inital hypothesis, that women will be more likely mentioned in virtue of their relationship to men. My analysis also supported that men will not  be mentioned as often in relation to their status as a "husband', "father", or "son" but more commonly as simply "men". These results show a consistent pattern in the examined colonial texts: women are more frequently represented through relational language than men. 